# Domain Name System
- The Domain Name System (DNS) resolves fully qualified domain names to IP addresses.
  - Uses a distributed database system that contains information on the domains and hosts within those domains
  
- dnschef in Kali Linux allows you to create a fake domain. 
  - Using metasploit, you can create your own DHCP server.
  
# DNS Secrutiy Extensions (DNSSEC)
- A security protocol that provides authentication of DNS data and uploads DNS data integrity. 
  - To mitigate against spoofing and poisoning attacks, there is a process with for DNS responses.
  
 - DNSSEC has a package of resouce records signed with a private key.
   - When the server records an exchange, the authoritative server records the exchange.
   
# SSH ( Secure Shell ) 
- A remote administration and file-copy program that supports VPNs by using port fowarding that run on port 22
  - The main use for SSH is secure file transfer (SFTP)
  - The most used is [openssh](openssh.com)
  
 - SSH servers are identified by a public/private key pair (asymmetrical) 
   - Kerberos
  
# Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (S/MIME)
- An email encryption standard that adds digital signatures and public key cryptography to traditional MIME communications
  - The user is issued a digital certificate containing his or her public key.
  - Between user interaction, both of them have eachothers keys. Public and private keys.

# Secure Real-time Protocol (SRTP)
- Version of RTP using TLS
  - A master key used to secure versions

# Lightweight Directory Access (LDAP)
- A network protocol used to access network directory databases, Which store information about authorized users and their privileges
  - Runs on port 389
  - No security and all transmissions are in plaintext
  - Vulnerable to sniffing and man-in-the-middle-attacks

# LDAP secure
- A network protocol used to access network directory databases, which store information about authorized user and their privileges
  - The server is installed with a digital certificate which is used to secure tunnel for the user credential exchange. 

# File Transfer Protocol (FTP)
- A protocol used to transfer files between network hosts.
  - Configured with several public directories

# File Transfer Protocol, Secure (FTPS
- A type of FTP using TLS for confidentiality 

# SSH File Transfer protocol (SFTP)
- A secure version of the FIle Transfer Protocol that usses SSH
  - Uses FTP to encrypt the authentication and data transfer between client and server

# Simple Network Management Protocol Security
- Protocol for monitoring and managing network devices.
  - Widely used framework for management and monitoring
  - Runs on a switch, router, sever, or other SNMP-compatible network devices




